<h1>Pizza Sales Analysis</h1>
<a href='https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiNGQ4Zjk3YTgtMjJkZi00YTlkLTk1Y2YtYmVhZTU5MjgyZjI0IiwidCI6IjA0MjJjNTMxLTA2YTgtNDE1Zi04YWQ1LWEzZmU0Mzk5ZjYwMiJ9'>Dashboard</a><br><br>
This project is a Pizza Sales Analysis Dashboard built using Power BI. The dataset contains detailed transactional information about pizza orders, including order ID, pizza name, category, size, ingredients, order date & time, quantity, unit price, and total price (quantity * unit price).
                    <br><br>The purpose of this project is to analyze sales performance and customer preferences by combining raw transactional data into an interactive dashboard. It highlights key performance indicators (KPIs) such as total revenue, total pizzas sold, total orders placed, average order value, and average pizzas per order.
                    <br><br>The goal is to provide a clear, data-driven view of pizza sales performance that helps the business understand what sells, when it sells, and how to maximize revenue while reducing losses from underperforming items.
                    <br><br><strong><h3>🐱 Followed the steps :</h3></strong><hr>
                            ✅ Understood and collect the dataset from relevant source.
                        <br>✅ Imported the data into Power BI.
                        <br>✅ Cleaned the data by handling missing values and uniform formatting.
                        <br>✅ Performed Feature Engineering.
                        <br>✅ Applied DAX measures to calculate Total Revenue, Total Pizzas Sold, Total Orders Placed, AOV & Average Pizzas per Order.
                        <br>✅ Exploratory Data Analysis.
                        <br>✅ Designed & developed the dashboard in Power Bi.
                    <br><br><strong><h3>🐱 Key Analysis Performed :</h3></strong><hr><ol>
                        <li><strong> Overall Performance –</strong> Performed analysis of total revenue, orders, and pizzas sold which shows the business generated $818K revenue from 50K pizzas across 21K orders, with an average of 2 pizzas per order.
                    <br><li> <strong>Category-Wise Sales –</strong> Performed analysis of pizza sales by category which shows Classic pizzas lead with 30% share, while Chicken is the least performing category with only 22%.
                    <br><li> <strong>Day-Wise Performance –</strong> Analyzed sales trends across different days of the week to identify peak sales periods.
                    <br><li> <strong>Pizza Size Preference –</strong> Tracked sales by pizza size to understand customer preferences for regular, medium, large, X-large or XX-large pizzas.
                    <br><li> <strong>Best-Selling Pizzas (Top 5) –</strong> Identified the top 5 best-selling pizzas overall and by category.
                    <br><li> <strong>Least-Selling Pizzas (Bottom 5) –</strong> Monitored sales of the least popular pizzas to identify potential areas for improvement or discontinuation.
                    <br><li> <strong>Revenue by Day and Category –</strong> Compared revenue generated by each pizza category across different days of the week.
                    <br><li> <strong>Customer Preferences –</strong> Performed analysis of size and category combinations to understand popular choices. </ol>
                    <br><strong><h3>🐱 Insights :</h3></strong><hr><ol>
                        <li><strong>Revenue, Orders, and Customer Behavior –</strong> The pizza shop generated $818K revenue from a total of 50K pizzas sold across 21K orders. Each order is worth about $38.31 on average, with customers typically buying 2 pizzas per order, reflecting a stable revenue stream and a group/family-oriented buying pattern.
                    <br><li> <strong>Top-Selling Category – </strong> Classic pizzas sell the most (30% share), followed by Supreme and Veggie (24% each), while Chicken is the least preferred (22%).
                    <br><li> <strong>Best Day for Sales –</strong> Sunday generates the highest revenue ($136K), followed closely by Monday ($134K). Thursday is the weakest ($98K).
                    <br><li> <strong>Sales by Pizza Size –</strong> Large pizzas dominate with 46% of sales, followed by Medium (30%) and Regular (22%), while X-Large and XX-Large contribute less than 2%.
                    <br><br><li><strong>Top 5 Most Sold Pizzas :</strong><ul>
                            <li>Thai Chicken Pizza (1,410)
                            <li> Classic Deluxe Pizza (1,181)
                            <li> Hawaiian Pizza (1,020)
                            <li> Barbecue Chicken Pizza (992)
                            <li> Pepperoni Pizza (939) </ul>
                    <br><li><strong>Bottom 5 Least Sold Pizzas :</strong><ul>
                            <li> Calabrese Pizza (562)
                            <li> Brie Carre Pizza (490)
                            <li> Soppressata Pizza (405)
                            <li> Spinach Supreme Pizza (400)
                            <li> Mediterranean Pizza (370)</ul>
                    <br><li> <strong>Sales Trends and Category Performance –</strong>  Sales peak on Sundays and Mondays but drop by Thursday, with Classic pizzas leading every day and Chicken pizzas underperforming.
                    <br><li> <strong>Pizza Size Contribution % –</strong> Large pizzas contribute nearly half of all sales (46%), followed by Medium (30%) and Regular (22%), while X-Large and XX-Large sizes are negligible (2%).
                    <br><li> <strong>Best Combination (Size + Category) –</strong> Large Classic pizzas generate the most revenue, combining the leading category and size preference.
                    <br><li> <strong>Underperforming Categories/Sizes –</strong> Chicken category and X-Large/XX-Large sizes underperform, showing weak customer demand compared to others.
                    <br><li> <strong>Underperforming Categories/Sizes –</strong> Chicken category and X-Large/XX-Large sizes underperform, showing weak customer demand compared to others.
                    <br><li> <strong>Customer Buying Pattern –</strong> Customers prefer ordering in pairs (2 pizzas/order), mostly in Large size, reflecting family/group dining behavior.
                    <br><li> <strong>Days for Large Pizza Demand –</strong> Customers buy larger pizzas more often on weekends (Saturday & Sunday), suggesting pizza is treated as a social/family meal during leisure time.</ol>
                    <br><strong><h3>🐱 Recommendations :</h3></strong><ul><hr>
                    <li>Consider discontinuing or rebranding low-selling pizzas like Calabrese, Brie Carre, and Mediterranean.</li>
                    <li>Focus marketing on top-sellers like Thai Chicken and Classic Deluxe.</li>
                    <li>Promote Large pizzas with combo deals since they are the most preferred size.</li>
                    <li>Bundle smaller sizes with sides/drinks to increase their appeal.</li>
                    <li>Introduce Thursday discounts or special offers to increase sales on low-performing days.</li>
                    <li>Enhance weekend marketing since Sundays already perform well.</li>
                    <li>Increase promotions for Chicken pizzas (least preferred) to balance sales.</li>
                    <li>Highlight new toppings/flavors under Veggie & Supreme to keep variety attractive.</li>
                    <li>Use loyalty rewards on weekdays to boost repeat purchases.</li>
                    <li>Run surveys to understand why certain pizzas underperform and adjust recipes/pricing.</li>
                    </ul>
